Today’s auspicious occasion is being
celebrated everywhere in India.
The reason is that the Sun which
has left us, has left India,
and had moved towards the Tropic
of Capricorn, has now returned.
And along with the movement
of the Earth and the Sun
all the vegetation, all the crops,
fruit and others are growing.
The time has come for their growth.
And all those trees
whose leaves were completely
removed in the cold weather,
appeared as if they have completely died,
all those trees are again awakened
and started to become green.
And that’s why, the significance
of this time
is that the Earth will again become
green,
and activities will start again
everywhere.
Especially in Northern India, where
it gets very cold,
it is a very special festival, that
the sun has arrived
and all the work dependent on the Sun
will be completely fulfilled now.
So today I transmit best wishes
to everyone here.
And on today’s auspicious occasion,
I could meet you all here.
This is also a great joy for Me, I feel.
As we consider Sun's appearance
as a very great thing,
it is much more important, that the Sun
of Sahaja Yoga comes on this Earth.
Because whatever creativity is
in this Universe,
the creativity is nourished by the Sun.
The Sun gives it the energy, and the
creative power of the "Paramchaitanya",
its aspect of action, has got activated
through Sahaja Yoga.
Till now Paramchaitanya was not
successful in any task.
The reason was, that the Sun had not
yet appeared in its courtyard.
But now this Sun has risen
in the courtyard of Paramchaitanya.
And because of that you all have
the light of it within you.
Because of that light, your Kundalini
has awakened,
and within you, the field of creation
has fully blossomed.
And this field of creation you all
are developing, in a way
that the whole world can benefit from it.
And it's a very great and divine thing.
This could not take place earlier.
In our country many sages
have expressed many ideas about
that such a day will come,
when collectively this creation
will get awakened.
That creation has awakened now.
And that’s why this is not only
an occasion for Earth's creation
but a great occasion for Sahaja
Yoga's creation also.
This year specially is considered to be
a very important year for Sahaja Yoga,
and the light of Sahaja Yoga will establish
very deeply in the people.
When something starts to establish deeply,
then we must understand that along with it,
some other important events also
take place.
Like those who are evil and want
to destroy the world,
and those who are creating terror,
destroying the best things of the world,
all such people are consequently destroyed.
As soon as saplings start blossoming
and if they carry truth within them,
they will wreck havoc in the place
they cannot blossom
and they will destroy everything.
In the same way, all the evil temperaments,
all the devilish forces, will be destroyed.
Like after the Sun appears, all the gloom,
all the darkness, is destroyed.
Similarly when the light of Sahaja Yoga
emerges
then the darkness of ignorance and
wickedness, is totally destroyed.
So today we are at the brink where
we have to take a very high flight.
And in this flight we have to understand
that we should give up all the burdens
within us.
We have many types of beliefs, we have
many types of wrong faiths,
and also there are all types of ignorance
within us.
We should renounce all this ignorance
and with a complete detachment, we should
take this flight.
And those who cannot detach from ignorance,
those who do not get rid of it, such people
will not be able to take this flight.
All of you know the significance
and divinity of Sahaj Yoga;
you are not ordinary people. And that’s
why I want to say that
those who want to fly higher and want
to raise higher,
should give up the burden of the many
shackles of traditions.
Similarly within us, ego and vanity
are like a very big mountain.
We should destroy this mountain
completely too.
And we can accomplish that, through
meditation,
and by completely immersing in Sahaj Yoga,
by completely surrendering to it.
The person who doesn’t surrender
to Sahaj Yoga, is still incomplete,
and it's possible to be left behind
during this flight,
to go to the same hell where
others are going.
So it's important that everyone strives
thoroughly.
All those who put efforts and try
half-heartedly,
I want to tell them, "Please renounce
this half hearted effort".
Because of this half hearted effort,
you cannot achieve anything.
Then how can you achieve that great state
for which people used to cleanse
by penance for thousands of years?
There is no need to belittle or punish
yourself,
but we must understand that today
we are facing a mirror,
and we have to completely remove
all the defects visible in us.
When you observe yourself from outside
then you will understand that you have
to destroy all these things.
By this happening, you will notice that
you receive many blessings from God.
And receiving those blessing
human beings will think that,
"I have achieved everything".
This is also a great fascination,
that I have received this or that,
all the worldly things.
And like this, when we want to get
something,
at the periphery of this there are some
things which can also mesmerize.
But we shouldn't stop there. We have
to achieve a great speed.
This is the result of good deeds
of your many lives
and you have to achieve it completely.
And we have to renounce those small,
petty desires within us,
and become completely surrendered and
give full contribution to Sahaja Yoga.
Only the one who will do this,
will achieve it.
The one who will not do it, because
of any reason, I can tell you openly,
that there is not much place
in the kingdom of God.
Those who want to go there, should think,
if they really want to reach there
that they have to get rid
of all the burdens.
And we have to take just one path, our
full efforts should be in one direction,
that we should somehow march in this
direction and keep progressing.
Every year you need to introspect
and see how much you have progresses
since last year.
Are we making excuses and thinking
that "we have to do this", "this is
important, that is important",
or from our heart we want to ascent?
And many people also think that
through Sahaj Yoga,
they will get rid of illness or will get
their problems solved,
that this will happen, that will happen...
They should know there is only
one solution for all the problems,
that we should reach that state
which is absolute.
Then all the things get solved by
themselves. You don't need to do anything.
So today I have shared with you my opinion.
But I want that you should also take
a resolution in your heart.
What I am saying appears to be very simple,
but the temperaments and activities
of human beings
are so strange that I am also not able
to understand them.
They say "If you can understand Him,
then how can He be God?"
but I say "If you can understand him,
then how can he be human?"
Because human beings are so complicated,
so complicated,
that to understand them is very difficult.
I request all of you that if you have
to achieve divinity,
the complicated nature should be
completely reprimanded,
and it should be renounced to.
And you should say that you want
to achieve that divinity,
by which anything that you touch
gets nourished, vibrated and beautiful.
Your life will also become very beautiful
very ideal, very joy giving, full of love,
and of a very high level.
Infinite blessings to all of you.
Today is a day for us to celebrate
in India very much,
and maybe also most of the Europe,
because the Sun goes down to the,
to the Capricorn
and from Capricorn, it then comes
to Tropic of Cancer.
When the Sun comes on this earth back,
then all the creativity of the Mother Earth
starts acting
and She creates such beautiful things
like flowers,
such nice things, nourishing things like
fruits, and fulfilling things like foods.
She makes our eyes cool down
with the greenery She has,
and the way She blesses us is manifold
with the advent of the soil.
In the same way, now, that the Sun
of Sahaj Yoga has risen,
risen and it’s coming to the zenith...
And it has definitely shown you
the result on the
earth principle, that is your Mooladhara
and the creative power of that Mooladhara
which is the Kundalini,
has been rising and rising and rising,
and opening your being, and showing
the results in your lives.
It has made your lives very beautiful,
it has made your life very joyous
and very happy.
Now we are at a point where we have
to trigger a new jump,
a new flight we have to take.
And for this flight, we have to see
that we really become
very light in our ideas, in our thoughts
and in our conditionings.
We are so much full of conditionings.
All kinds of conditionings are on us.
They are so deep that sometimes I fail
to understand human beings,
I just don’t understand how they get stuck
to things which are of no value, which
have no sense, and they get lost.
In this higher jump that we are going
to take,
many will be left behind as a result, those
who won’t be able to come out of that.
So at this stage, I have to request you
that you should really, fully
dedicate yourself to meditation and
surrender yourself to collectivity.
And every day you must think,
in the evening,
“What have I done for Sahaja Yoga?
What have I done for myself?"
Please try to understand that there
is a very big jump we have to take.
It is to be triggered and for that,
I would like you to be ready,
to be absolutely prepared because
in this jump many might be lost,
and many might be just left behind,
because they could not get over
their conditionings.
The conditionings are of various types,
as you know very well,
of ignorance, blind faith, and all other
things that we have gone through.
Also, we have conditionings of our country,
of our race, of our styles
and so many other things, by which
we judge others.
But we have to judge ourselves, that
"Are we in a Sahaj culture or not?"
If you are not in the Sahaj culture,
then it’s going to be very difficult
that you’ll board the ship, which is
going to take us off.
I have to just warn you, that later on,
you shouldn’t say
that: “Mother, so many were left behind”.
If you find anybody is left behind,
please try to help that person.
Please try to correct that person,
and with clear ideas, and with clear voice,
and with clear-cut instructions.
If you really find that somebody
is going down, you’d better warn.
I am telling you all today because
you all will be departing,
that you should look after your fellowmen
Sahaja Yogis,
and tell them that this is a very
crucial time,
and at this time, none of us should just
take for granted Sahaja Yoga.
All other things are just a kind
of an illusion,
that you feel that the worldly things
are all right,
or with the worldly things you can manage.
God doesn’t care for people who are rich,
or people who are well-off, or people
who are poor.
What He sees, what richness you have got
of spirituality.
He doesn’t bother about your education,
of your degrees, of your pompousness,
nothing of the kind.
What He sees, how innocent you are, and
how much you have worked for Sahaja Yoga,
what you have done for God’s work.
So all these priorities have to be changed,
and one must understand that Sahaja Yoga
judges you on a very subtle level.
So in this Last Judgment, now, as many
people have been judged
as good people, very nice people,
but still, for the second jump that
you are going to have,
we have to be very careful, that maybe
some of you
who think in their heart they are Sahaja
yogis, but are not, may be left behind.
So it is important that the Sun has risen
and now it has gone to the zenith.
And at the time of its zenith, one has
to be very careful because the same Sun,
which has started making this beautiful
greenery all around us,
may scorch with its heat many of them.
So be careful. And one has to be all the
time under the guidance of Sahaja Yoga
to understand what is wrong with us,
what is making us so heavy,
what is making us so difficult.
So far I am very happy that whatever
I have been telling you
and whatever I have been guiding you, you
have accepted it very calmly and sweetly,
and that you have tried to imbibe it
in your lifestyle.
Actually, after some time, I don’t think
I’ll have to tell you anything.
You will get your own light, to see for
yourself what is right and what is wrong.
But still, I would say, for all the Western
people specially,
that you must open your heart in the Puja,
in the music, in anything,
just see that you open your heart.
If you cannot open your heart,
this won’t work because this works through
Spirit, which resides in your heart.
So please try to open your heart for
everything all your conditionings,
all your ego will disappear when you decide
that, “I have to open my heart
to Sahaja Yoga”.
May God bless you all.